Let's go ahead and
start diving into serverless functions.
And so I'm gonna move out of our basic and
I'm gonna move into contact here.
Inside of contact, I have, really nothing.
So let's just clear out and take a look.
So in my contact folder,
I have a bunch of stuff that I don't need.
We'll end up dealing with
all that when it's time.
So the only thing that we have
right now is a dot and dot example.
We'll get to that in a minute and
why that's useful, but for
now, we're just gonna start out
with some simple functions.
So a serverless function,
the the biggest challenge that you'll hear
when you start talking about the JAMstack,
is that people will say, hey,
I appreciate that this is fast and
that this is easy, but
you can't build a real app with this.
There's a pushback that static assets
means that these are only good for
static sites.
And that is, I can understand
where that objection comes from,
because historically, that would be true.
If I wanted to have anything more than a
marketing site that shows some images and
some cool information about a product or
service, how do you do that?
How do you add interactivity or something?
You would end up needing to
stand up a server of some sort.
And so while you could potentially
call that a JAMstack site,
because you would be calling your own API,
functionally that would mean that
you're still maintaining a server.
You're now at a microservices level.
You've got a UI layer.
And then you've got your
API servers over here.
So when we start looking at true
JAMstack, serverless starts to
overcome that objection that you
can't do anything real
with just the JAMstack.
Because what serverless gives us is
the ability to write just a little bit of
JavaScript.
And then we don't have
to maintain a server.
We don't have to stand up an API
to add that functionality,
because all of that is abstracted away and
managed, functions as a service.
So the first thing that I wanna do
here is let's just build the simplest
possible serverless function and
watch it work.
So I'm gonna create in this contact
folder, a folder called functions.
And then I want to create a hello.js.
And we're gonna build a hello world,
because that's what you gotta do whenever
you're learning something new, right?
So the format for
a serverless function is gonna vary
a little bit from service to service.
If you look around at
the cloud providers today,
pretty much all of them will have
some variation of functions.
You can do this through
AWS has AWS Lambda, Google
cloud functions, Azure functions,
Zyte has functions as a service.
I mean, honestly,
any kind of cloud company is most likely
going to have a lambda functions
as a service offering.
We're going to use Netlify,
because again, it's free and it's easy.
If you use something like AWS, they have
Amplify, which also makes this very easy.
But it's not quite free, I don't think.
I don't know.
AWS is one of those things that I'm
kinda carrying some preamplifier trauma
around from, so I still am like,
I wanna do it the easier way.
But I have to give a shout out to
the Amplified team because they are doing
a fantastic job of
making AWS approachable.
But today we're going to use Netlify.
You can use whatever
service you want there.
There are lots and lots of options.